*Step 1.* Get source.
* To get source of GWT Framework, execute the following command:
{screen}
svn co http://svn.exoplatform.org/projects/gwt/tags/1.0.0-CR01 gwt-commons
{screen}
* To get source of eXo IDE, execute the following command:
{screen}
svn co http://svn.exoplatform.org/exo-int/ideall/tags/1.0.0-CR01 ide
{screen}

*Step 2.* Source compile.
* Go to folder gwt-commons and run the command:
{screen}
mvn clean install
{screen}
* Go to folder ide and run the command:
{screen}
mvn clean install
{screen}
h1. Run As Standalone Application
* Download Apache Tomcat from [here|http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi] and unzip it to the directory with your project's dependencies.
* Go to the root directory of maven and edit file *"conf/settings.xml"*. Add two properties: directory with your project's dependencies and tomcat version like following: 
{code:language=xml}
...
<profile>
   <id>local-properties</id>
      <properties>
      ...  
         <exo.projects.directory.dependencies>[PATH_TO_PROJECT_DEPENDENCIES]</exo.projects.
          directory.dependencies>
         <exo.projects.app.tomcat.version>tomcat-[TOMCAT_VERSION]</exo.projects.app.tomcat.version>
      </properties>
      ...  
</profile>  
...
{code}
In this case, the path to the Apache Tomcat will be "\[PATH_TO_PROJECT_DEPENDENCIES\]/tomcat-\[TOMCAT_VERSION\]".
* Go to folder *exo-ide-client* and execute the command:
{screen}
mvn clean install -Pstandalone
{screen}
* Go to folder *exo-ide-packaging-standalone-tomcat* and execute the command:
{screen}
mvn clean install
{screen}
# Go to folder *exo-ide-packaging-standalone-tomcat/target/tomcat-ide/bin* and execute the command:
In Windows:
{screen}
ide.bat run
{screen}
In Unix:
{screen}
./ide.sh run
{screen}
* Application is available in browser by this URL:
{screen}
http://localhost:8080/IDE-application/IDE/IDEApplication.html
{screen}

h1. Run GWT Development Mode

* Edit file *ide/exo-ide-client/src/main/resources/org/exoplatform/ide/public/applicationInitializer.js* like below:
{code:language=javascript}
var registryURL = "/rest/private/registry/repository";
var proxyServiceContext = "/rest/private/proxy";
   var appConfig = {
        "context" : "/rest/private",
        "publicContext" : "/rest",
        "entryPoint" : "/rest/private/jcr/repository/dev-monit/",
        "gadgetServer" : "/gadgets/" /*under GWT Shell*/
    }
{code}
* Go to folder *exo-ide-client* and execute the command:
{screen}
mvn clean gwt:run -Pshell
{screen}
GWT Development window will appear.
* Click on "Launch Default Browser" button in the GWT window to open eXo IDE in your Web browser.

{note}
If you don't have Google Web Toolkit Developer Plugin in your browser installed, then you will be prompted to install it.
Follow the instructions in your web browser to install the plugin:
* download and install required Google Web Toolkit Developer Plugin for your browser. E.g., for the FireFox this plugin can be downloaded from [this URL|https://dl-ssl.google.com/gwt/plugins/firefox/gwt-dev-plugin.xpi].
* allow GWT plugin connection in the special dialog window.
{note}

After successfully launched, eXo IDE will be opened in your default browser.

{tip}
To open eXo IDE in non-default browser - copy the URL by clicking on "Copy to Clipboard" button then paste it into browser's address bar.
{tip}
