eXo IDE is a powerful Web application which provides a rich environment for developing different content, scripts, and services. It requires no additional installations, runs in a browser and allows to access and work with files online from anywhere. eXo IDE offers:

* Work with the Remote File System through _Virtual File System_ including Browsing, File Locking, File Search, Versioning.
* Code Editor with Syntax Highlighting for many popular languages ??and advanced features such as: Code Autocomplete, Code Outline and WYSIWYG Editor for HTML and Google Gadget.
* Support for multiple programming and descriptive languages such as: JavaScript, HTML, XML, CSS, Java, Groovy, PHP, Ruby, JSP, etc.
* Tools for developing client side applications including technologies such as Netvibes Widgets, Google Gadgets, Groovy Templates, Java Projects and Ruby on Rails Projects;
* Development of server-side applications, running, debugging, and interaction with the client side via REST Service.

The eXo IDE User Guide aims at providing explanations and step-by-step instructions of functions in eXo IDE.

eXo IDE serves two types of J2EE roles: *administrators* and *developers*. Before working with the eXo IDE, make sure (ask your system admin) that your credentials contain one of the listed roles. eXo IDE offers pretty the same functionality for them except that *developers* can not deploy theirs REST services on common environment and uses kind of "sandbox" to deploy them.

h1. Requirements

Supported Web browsers:

* Mozilla Firefox 3.6\+
* Safari 5.0\+
* Google Chrome 11.0\+
* Internet Explorer 7.0\+