h1. Create Folder

To create folder, find and select target folder and click on popup *"New"* button in the _Toolbar_ and select *"Folder..."* or select *"File->New->Folder..."* from top menu, type new folder name in the *"Create Folder"* dialog and click on *"Create"* button.
If _Workspace Panel_ has selected file, then folder will be created in the target folder of this file, if folder is selected - new folder will be it's child.
In case there is no selected item in the _Workspace Panel_, then the folder will be created in the root folder.
In case of selection create folder command will be disabled.

h1. Delete Folder

To delete some folder(s), please, select folder item(s) in _Workspace Panel_, click on *"Delete Item(s)..."* button at the _Toolbar_ or call the *"File->Delete..."* from top menu and then confirm deletion in the *"Delete Item(s) "* dialog.
Files opened in _Content Panel_ will be closed after removing the folder, which contains them.
{note}
It is impossible to remove:
* workspace root folder;
* multiple items from different hierarchic levels at the same time.

So, the "Delete Item(s)" button will be disabled if the root item is selected or multiple selection on different levels in Workspace Panel.
{note}

h1. Rename Folder

To rename folder, firstly, select folder to rename in _Workspace Panel_ then click *"File->Rename..."* from top menu. Rename dialog will appear, where you can change the current folder name by entering the new name in *"Rename item to:"* field. Then, click on *"Rename"* button to rename the folder.
If there are some opened and unsaved files from renaming folder or sub folder in the _Content Panel_, you will be able to save those files after folder had been renamed.
If there is a folder with the same name in the target folder, you will receive this error message.

{note}
It is impossible to rename workspace root folder.
{note}
{warning}
Don't forget to undeploy all earlier deployed REST Service within the moved folder or sub folder before the folder would be renamed.
{warning}

h1. Download Zipped Folder

If you want to download some folders from _JCR Repository_, you can use this special command: *"Download Zipped Folder...*". Simply select a target folder and call *"File->Download Zipped Folder..."* from top menu. After that, zip-archive with folder content will be prepared on the server and server will sent it to the client. So, the browser will propose to save archive on local computer.

{note}
The archive uses UTF-8 encoding in entry names. Be sure that your zip extractor supports UTF-8 in file names. Windows Explorer doesn't support it, you may use 7zip to unzip the archive. In Linux unzip(6.0 and older) command also doesn't support UTF-8 (depends on distributive), if you use KDE 4 as DE you may configure Dolphin to use archive as folder(in Dolphin go to "Settings->Configure Dolphin..->Navigation" and set "Open archive as folder" checkbox).
{note}
