For your convenience, Codenvy provides Shell application to work in console mode. To use this application, click *Shell* at the right part of the Menu Bar. The application window will be opened in the separate tab of your browser. The console prompt consists of user name and current folder. 

h1. Shell Commands Observation and usage

Type {{help}} command and press *Enter* key to see the all command list with description, in alphabetical sorted order and divided on next groups:

1. General operations refer to virtual file system, project and job management.

2. {{git}} commands refer to operations with GIT version control system. 

3. {{jcr}} commands refer to operations with JCR - inbuild Codenvy repository.

4. {{vmc}} commands refer to operations with CloudFoundry PaaS. 

5. {{appcfg}} commands refer to configure of applications deployed to Google Application Engine.

You can also view the command usage information by using {{-h}} key after the command name. For example: to learn more about {{jcr mixin}} command, type {{jcr mixin}} {{-h}} and press Enter. The following message will appear:

{code}
exo:op$ jcr mixin -h
usage: mixin[-h | --help] COMMAND [ARGS]

The most commonly used mixin commands are:
   add              add a mixin to one or several nodes
   remove           removes a mixin from one or several nodes
{code}

To navigate the command history, press *Up* or *Down* keys. 

To clear the Shell window, run {{clear}} command or press *Ctrl+Shift+X*

*Select All*, *Copy*, *Paste* operations and their short cuts "Ctrl+A", "Ctrl+C", "Ctrl+V" are also available within the Shell application window. So you can copy and paste content from the window and to it.

If you haven't indicated some mandatory command parameter, the error message explaining it will be displayed. For example: If you run {{mkdir}} command without indicating the new directory name, the following error message will appear:

{code}
mkdir: missing folder name
{code}

The autocomplete function for Shell commands list is also available. You can type a part of a command name and press Tab key. If there is one command containing this part, the command will be autocompleted. If there are several commands containing this part, the list of these commands will be displayed. 

To clear shell screen use command *clear*.

h1. Virtual file system operations

Commands below are aimed to perform file Codenvy file system operations. 
{tip}Use slash symbol as the path separator and around path which consists of space symbols in double quotes.{tip}

h2. Get list of files and folders
{screen}
ls <directory>
{screen}
*ls* displays info about current directory by default.

h2. Changes the current folder
{screen}
cd <directory>
{screen}

To go to root directory of workspace, use command *"cd /"*.
To go to another project, use command *"cd /<another-project-name>"*.

h2. Create new directory
{screen}
mkdir <directory>...
{screen}

h2. Print current directory path
{screen}
pwd
{screen}

h2. Concatenate files and print on the console
{screen}
cat <file>...
{screen}

h2. Remove file or directory
{screen}
rm <file|directory>
{screen}

h1. Project management commands
h2. Start project build
{screen}
mvn clean package
{screen}
Call this command from root directory of project only.
Build is running in asynchronous mode, so use command *jobs* to see status of build.

h1. Job management commands
h2. Get list of background jobs were being run in asynchronous mode
{screen}
jobs
{screen}
For example:
{code}
cloud.ide.test2@gmail.com:spring$ jobs
USER                          ID        STAT      PATH
cloud.ide.test2@gmail.com     104       done      /IDE/rest/private/ide/appengine/update
cloud.ide.test2@gmail.com     106       running   /IDE/rest/private/ide/appengine/update
{code}

h2. Cancel the job
{screen}
kill <job ID>
{screen}
Parameter *job ID* is the ID of asynchronous job like _5737_.

h1. Operations with GIT version control system

Git commands can be invoke from project's root directory only.

h2. Initialize new GIT repository
{screen}
git init
{screen}

h2. Get status of working directory
{screen}
git status
{screen}

For example:
{code}
test@codenvy.com:test$ git status
# On branch test
# Changes to be committed:
#
#       modified:    domain/pom.xml
#
# Changes not staged for commit:
#
#       modified:    gwt/pom.xml
#       modified:    pom.xm
{code}

h2. Add file contents to the index.
{screen}
git add <file>...
{screen}

The command *git add* stages a file. If a file is untracked, *git add* converts that file’s status to tracked. When *git add* is used on a directory name, or without file/directory, than all of the files and subdirectories beneath it are staged recursively.

h2. Record changes to a repository
{screen}
git commit -m/--message "<message>"
{screen}

After successful commit _Shell_ displays name of branch and hash of commit, for example:
{code}
[master 0930f24d44d2ebc73180a0415bff22488015d6fc] 
{code}
h2. Remote repositories management

h3. Show a list of existing references to remote repositories
{screen}
git remote list
{screen}

h3. Add reference to remote repository
{screen}
git remote add --name/-n <name-of-remote> --url/-u <url-of-remote>
{screen}

h3. Remove the remote repository reference from project
{screen}
git remote rm <name-of-remote>
{screen}

All remote-tracking branches and configuration settings for the remote are being removed.


h1. Operations with Cloud Foundry PaaS

You must login to Cloud Foundry by using command *PaaS > CloudFoundry > Switch Account* before managing your account. 

h2. Preview and Change Cloud Foundry server URL

h3. Preview Cloud Foundry server URL
Preview current Cloud Foundry server URL:
{screen}
vmc target
{screen}

Get list of known URLs:
{screen}
vmc targets
{screen}

h3. Change Cloud Foundry server URL
{screen}
vmc set-target <server-url>
{screen}
Parameter *server-url* is URL of another CloudFoundry server API. Default URL is http://api.cloudfoundry.com.

h2. Login to Cloud Foundry
{screen}
vmc login -e/--email <email> -p/--passwd <password>
{screen}

h2. Get Cloud Foundry system and account information
{screen}
vmc info
{screen}

h2. List of deployed applications
{screen}
vmc apps
{screen}
Example of output:
{code}
test@codenvy.com:Spring1$ vmc apps
[
    {
        "name" : "NewProject",
        "resources" : {
            "memory" : 1000,
            "disk" : 2048
        },
        "debug" : null,
        "state" : "STOPPED",
        "env" : [],
        "version" : "1f2f4dd4115bf79d12ef893997cb40efc6dafeef-4",
        "services" : [],
        "uris" : [
            "test_cloud-ide_newproject1.cloudfoundry.com"
        ],
        "staging" : {
            "stack" : "java",
            "model" : "spring"
        },
        "instances" : 2,
        "runningInstances" : 0,
        "meta" : {
            "debug" : null,
            "version" : 30,
            "created" : 1349691106,
            "console" : null
        }
    }
]
{code}

h2. Start Cloud Foundry application
{screen}
vmc start [application-name]
{screen}
Application status will be displayed after the successful start.

{tip}"application-name" parameter can be omitted if you call command from root directory of project.{tip}

h2. Restart Cloud Foundry application
{screen}
vmc restart [application-name]
{screen}
Application status will be displayed after the successful restart.

h2. Stop Cloud Foundry application
{screen}
vmc stop [application-name]
{screen}

h2.  Delete Cloud Foundry application
{screen}
vmc delete [application-name] [-d/--delete-services]
{screen}
Use *-d* or *\--delete-services* option to delete services bounded to application.


h2. Display resource usage for the Cloud Foundry application
You should call launch this command from root folder of target Cloud Foundry project
{screen}
vmc stats [application-name]
{screen}

You will see something like the follow:
{code}
test@codenvy.com:Spring1$ vmc stats
{
    "0" : {
        "name" : "Spring1",
        "state" : "RUNNING",
        "host" : "172.35.30.1",
        "port" : 6590,
        "uptime" : "0d:0h:1m:57s",
        "uris" : [
            "023851732_spring1.cloudfoundry.com"
        ],
        "cpu" : 2.3,
        "mem" : 101,
        "disk" : 9,
        "cpuCores" : 4,
        "memLimit" : 512,
        "diskLimit" : 2048
    }
}
{code}

h1. Get info about applications deployed to Google Application Engine and configure they

Firstly you should login to Google Application Engine by using command *PaaS > Google App Engine > Login*. Then you will be able to use this commands to configuration and static files for your application, to manage datastore indexes and download log data, etc.
These commands should be launched only from root directory of application, created in Google Application Engine before. 
More information about Google Application Engine configuration can be found at the https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/ and https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python .

h2. Display info about current application resource limits
{screen}
appcfg resource_limits_info
{screen}

For example:
{code}
test@codenvy:Spring1$ vmc resource_limits_info
{
    "max_blob_size" : 32000000,
    "max_file_size" : 32000000,
    "max_file_count" : 10000,
    "max_total_file_size" : 1073741824,
    "max_files_to_clone" : 1000
}

{code}

h2. Create or update an app version
{screen}
appcfg update [-w/--war <bin>]
{screen}

h2.  Rollback an in-progress update
{screen}
appcfg rollback
{screen}

h2. Backends Config
App Engine Backends are instances of your application that are exempt from request deadlines and have access to more memory and CPU than normal instances.  Backends are configured using either *backends.xml* or *backends.yaml*. More details can be found here "[Java Backends Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/config/backends]" or here "[Python Backends Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/config/backends]".

h3. List all backends
{screen}
appcfg backends
{screen}

h3. Roll back all in-progress update
{screen}
appcfg backends rollback
{screen}

h3. Update all backend
{screen}
appcfg backends update
{screen}

h3. Configure backend
{screen}
appcfg backend configure <backend_name>
{screen}

h3. Update backend
{screen}
appcfg backend update
 <backend_name>
{screen}

h3. Set start/stop state of backend.
{screen}
appcfg backend set_state <backend_name> [-s/--state start/stop]
{screen}

h3. Roll back a previously in-progress update
{screen}
appcfg backend rollback
{screen}

h3.  Delete the specified backend
{screen}
appcfg backend delete <backend_name>
{screen}

h2. Scheduled Tasks
A *cron.xml* file in the WEB-INF directory of your application (alongside appengine-web.xml) controls cron for your Java application, as it is described here "[Scheduled Tasks With Cron for Java|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/config/cron]". 
Use file *cron.yaml* file in the root directory for the same purposes for your Python application according to document "[Scheduled Tasks With Cron for Python|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/config/cron]".

h3. Displays times for the next several runs of each cron job
{screen}
appcfg cron_info
{screen}

h3. Update application cron jobs based on cron.xml
{screen}
appcfg update_cron
{screen}

h2. Get application's logs in Apache common log format
{screen}
appcfg request_logs -d/--days <number_of_days> -s/--severity <severity>
{screen}
Here:
* *<number_of_days>*: the number of days of log data to retrieve, ending on the current date at midnight UTC. A value of 0 retrieves all available logs.
* *<severity>*: the minimum log level for the log messages to retrieve. The value is a number corresponding to the log level: CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, INFO, DEBUG.


h2. Upload configuration of DoS protection for an app
The App Engine _Denial of Service (DoS) Protection Service_ enables you to protect your application from running out of quota when subjected to denial of service attacks or similar forms of abuse. A *dos.xml* file in the WEB-INF directory of Java application (alongside appengine-web.xml) configures DoS Protection Service blacklists for your application. See example here "[DoS Protection Service for Java|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/config/dos]". Use file *dos.yaml* for the same purposes in Python application as it described here "[DoS Protection Service for Python|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/config/dos]".
To save changes call next command:
{screen}
appcfg update_dos
{screen}


h2. Update page speed

You can add a pagespeed section to your application configuration. See example of configuration here "[Java Custom PageSpeed Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/config/appconfig#pagespeed]" or here "[Python Custom PageSpeed Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/config/appconfig#pagespeed]".

Use next command to involve new pagespeed configuration:
{screen}
appcfg update_pagespeed
{screen}

h2. Task Queue Config
Java applications define task queues in a configuration file called *queue.xml*, in the your application's WEB-INF directory as it describe here [Java Task Queue Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/config/queue] whereas Python applications - in *queue.yaml* file in the root directory according to the document "[Python Task Queue Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/config/queue]".
To update application task queue definitions use command:
{screen}
appcfg update_queues
{screen}

h2. Index Config
The App Engine datastore uses indexes for every query your application makes. For Java Application you should specify configuration for datastore indexes in *WEB-INF/datastore-indexes.xml*, in your app's war/ directory as it is described here "[Java Datastore Index Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/java/config/indexconfig]", whereas for Python Application - in *index.yaml* file in the root directory according to the document "[Index Configuration|https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/datastore/indexes#Index_Configuration]".

h3. Update application indexes
{screen}
appcfg update_indexes
{screen}

h3. Delete unused indexes from application
{screen}
appcfg vacuum_indexes
{screen}
