h1. Introduction
{include:document="IDE/Introduction.wiki" /} 

h1. Interface Overview
{include:document="IDE/Interface Overview.wiki" /} 


h1. Basic Operations with Files and Folders
{include:document="IDE/Basic Operations with Files and Folders.wiki" /}

h1. Operations with Folders
{include:document="IDE/Operations with Folders.wiki" /}

h1. Operations With Files
{include:document="IDE/Operations With Files.wiki" /}

h1. Use File Template
{include:document="IDE/Use File Template.wiki" /}

h1. Use Project Template
{include:document="IDE/Use Project Template.wiki" /}

h1. Edit Files in the Code Editor
{include:document="IDE/Edit Files in the Code Editor.wiki" /}

h1. Supported Languages
{include:document="IDE/Supported Languages.wiki" /}

h1. Search Files
{include:document="IDE/Search Files.wiki" /}

h1. REST Service Operations
{include:document="IDE/REST Service Operations.wiki" /}

h1. Git Version Control System
{include:document="IDE/Git Version Control System.wiki" /}

h1. SSH Keys
{include:document="IDE/SSH Keys.wiki" /}

h1. Operations With POGO File
{include:document="IDE/Operations With POGO File.wiki" /}

h1. Operations With Google Gadget
{include:document="IDE/Operations With Google Gadget.wiki" /}

h1. Operations With Templates
{include:document="IDE/Operations With Templates.wiki" /}

h1. Operations With Netvibes Widget
{include:document="IDE/Operations With Netvibes Widget.wiki" /}

h1. Chromattic Data Object Usage
{include:document="IDE/Chromattic Data Object Usage.wiki" /}

h1. Versioning
{include:document="IDE/Versioning.wiki" /}

h1. PaaS Deployment
{include:document="IDE/PaaS Deployment.wiki" /}

h1. Shell Console Application
{include:document="IDE/Shell Console Application.wiki" /}

h1. Miscellaneous and Tips
{include:document="IDE/Miscellaneous and Tips.wiki" /}

h1. Links
* [Codemirror usage|http://codemirror.net]
* [FCKeditor user guide|http://docs.cksource.com/FCKeditor_2.x/Users_Guide]
* [What are gadgets powered by Google|http://www.google.com/webmasters/gadgets]
* [RESTful Web Services|http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/articles/javase/index-137171.html]
* [Netvibes Documentation|http://dev.netvibes.com/doc/]
